Atlas Aquatica
================

Since the invention of SCUBA in 1942, diving tourism has evolved from a
niche activity to a thriving industry that lures practitioners with the
promise of experiencing wildlife encounters from every corner of the
world. Therefore, mapping dive sites and engaging the diving sector in
conservation frameworks directly contribute to mapping and protecting
associated marine ecosystems and their contributions to people. A global
map of dive sites, with the associated information of tourism operators
offering such activities, can galvanize a network of divers and
operators that has a high potential for citizen science, collective
actions towards conservation, and a better understanding of the economic
benefits of marine ecosystems. Such integration of divers in
conservation can directly help to protect critical ecosystems, such as
coral reefs, as well as establishing marine protected areas around
diving sites. Improvement in environmental protection in those diving
sites can also co-benefit other sectors like fisheries and other
sections of the overall tourism industry and coastal infrastructure.
This global network can become a platform to promote the centralization
and flow of information to all stakeholders. Those dive sites, once
their true value is recognized, can be beacons around which effective
and equitable environmental protection is put in place through tools
like Marine Protected Areas, other effective conservation measures
(OECMs), and the creation of Indigenous and community conserved areas
and territories (ICCAs) and locally managed marine areas (LMMAs).

Economic value from given industries can be estimated in various ways,
but we focus here on the direct economic impact (i.e., gross revenue) of
marine dive tourism per year around the world. These are real
expenditures made by participants in diving activities with scuba and
snorkel operators; ideally, total economic impacts including additional
rounds of spending would be included, but the information necessary for
this type of analysis is not available for most parts of the world and
so would require strong assumptions. This analysis requires 1) a global
list of existing dive operators and locations; 2) survey data on
participation, expenditures, and employment generated per year; and 3) a
meta-analytical model to fill missing gaps in information. The initial
global list of dive operators is essential because it represents all
individual data points for which expenditures are calculated.
Fortunately for this context, the vast majority of dive activities
around the world are led and promoted by operators affiliated with one
of few certifying bodies, the largest of which, PADI, has over 50%
global market share and 70% in the USA (others include NAUI, SSI, and
SDI).
